'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Chris Kern\&.
.TH xplage 1 "29-Nov-07" "" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
xplage \- convert X-Plane datagrams to
.SM KML
files
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fBxplage [-\fBlmh\fR] [-\fBf\fR \fIfeet\fR] [-\fBi\fR \fIseconds\fR] [-\fBo\fR \fIpath\fR] [ -\fBp\fR \fIport\fR] [-\fBs\fR] [-\fBt\fR] [-\fBv\fR \fIversion\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \fBxplage\fR command listens on a network \fBsocket\fR(3\s-1SOCKET\s+1) for
.SM UDP
datagrams representing the geographical coordinates and orientation
of an instance of the X-Plane\(rg flight simulator,
and converts them to
.SM KML
files that Google Earth\(rg can use as network links
to create ``moving maps'' of the simulated flight path.
Two
.SM KML
files are created:
one produces an overhead view
of the simulated aircraft's position;
the other produces a perspective view
of the terrain ahead of the aircraft. 
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB- \fB[ l | m | h ]\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
Set the height offset of the Google Earth ``eye''
to a preset low (medium, high) level.
This is added to the altitude
of the simulated aircraft
to determine the height
of the overhead earth viewer.
(The eye value is not used in the perspective view.)
.in -16n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB-\fBf\fR \fIfeet\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
Set the eye offset to \fIfeet\fR above the altitude
of the simulated aircraft.
(The \fIfeet\fR parameter should be entered as a decimal integer string,
without commas.)
.in -16n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB-i\fB \fIseconds\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
Set the interval timer for file writes
to \fIseconds\fR
rather than the default one second.
.in -16n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB-\fBo\fR \fIpath\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
Use
\fIpath\fR
for the output
instead of the standard document directory
for the Apache
.SM HTTP
server on the target platform.
.in -16n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB-\fBp\fR \fIport\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
Listen for
.SM UDP
datagrams on \fIport\fR
rather than the default port of 49000.
.in -16n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB-\fBs\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
By default, \fBxplage\fR prints data capture metrics
and current values for the coordinates
to its standard output stream.  This option suppresses
the incessant chatter.
.in -16n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB-\fBt\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
In addition to the two
.SM KML
files,
deposit a file containing comma-separated values
representing the flight track
in the target directory.
.in -16n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB-\fBv \fIversion\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
.B Xplage
usually can determine
which version of X-Plane is the source of the telemetry,
and adjust its semantics accordingly.
This option disables that automatic process
so only datagrams from the specified \fIversion\fR
will be detected.
.sp
.PP
If \fBxplage\fR is executed in the foreground,
a software interrupt
(typically initiated by typing a Control-C
in the controlling terminal)
will prompt the user to exit \fBxplage\fR
or enter new parameters
for the height of the ``eye,''
allowing it to be modified
without killing and relaunching
the \fBxplage\fR process.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
The \fBxplage\fR command returns a non-zero value
to its invoking process
if it encounters
an input or output error.
Otherwise it executes continuously
until manually stopped by the user.
.SH "FILES"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB<Apache Documents>/overhead.kml\fR
.in +48n
.rt
overhead view
.SM KML
directives
.in -48n
.ne 2
.mk
\fB<Apache Documents>/perspective.kml\fR
.in +48n
.rt
perspective view
.SM KML
directives
.in -48n
.ne 2
.mk
\fB<Apache Documents>/track.csv\fR
.in +48n
.rt
comma-separated track data
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBxplage\fR(4)
